{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\qc\sa360\keep\keepn\pagebb{\*\pn \pnlvl1\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 {\pntxta .}}\b\f4\fs40\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\qj\sb360\sa120\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 }\f4\fs36\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb240\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl3\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 {\pntxtb .}}\f4\fs30\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext15 heading 3;}{\s4\sb290\sa192\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl4\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 {\pntxtb .}}\i\f4\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\qj\sb240\sa60\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl5\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 {\pntxtb .}}
\f5\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\qj\sb240\sa60\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl6\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 {\pntxtb .}}\i\f5\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}{\s7\qj\sb240\sa60\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl7
\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 {\pntxtb .}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 7;}{\s8\qj\sb240\sa60\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl8\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 {\pntxtb .}}\i\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 8;}{
\s9\qj\sb240\sa60\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl9\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 {\pntxtb .}}\i\f5\fs18\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\qj\li720\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext15 
Normal Indent;}{\s16\qj\li1418\ri850\keep\keepn\tldot\tx8646\tqr\tx9072 \f4\fs26\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 toc 3;}{\s17\qj\li709\ri850\keep\keepn\tldot\tx8646\tqr\tx9072 \f4\fs26\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 toc 2;}{
\s18\qj\ri850\keep\keepn\tldot\tx8504\tqr\tx8640 \f4\fs26\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 toc 1;}{\s19\qj\keep\keepn\tqc\tx4819\tqr\tx9071 \f4\fs26\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext19 footer;}{\s20\qj\keep\keepn\tqc\tx4819\tqr\tx9071 \f4\fs26\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext20 header;}{\*\cs21 \additive\fs16\up6 \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\s22\qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext22 footnote text;}{\s23\fi-284\li426\sa164\keep\keepn \f4\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext23 liste;}{
\s24\fi-284\li426\sb192\sa164\keep\keepn \f4\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon23\snext23 listestart;}{\s25 \f3\fs20 \snext25 Programtekst;}{\s26\qc\sb68 \f3\fs20 \sbasedon25\snext26 TableText;}{\s27\keep\keepn \b\f4\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext27 Statement;}{
\s28\qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext28 Figur tekst;}{\s29\qj\sb120\keep\keepn \f4\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext29 caption;}}{\info{\title Monster Creation}{\author Michael Seifert}{\operator Michael Seifert}
{\creatim\yr1995\mo1\dy1\hr15\min30}{\revtim\yr1995\mo1\dy1\hr15\min30}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49203}}\paperw11907\paperh16840\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noextrasprl\prcolbl\cvmme\sprsspbf\brkfrm\swpbdr\hyphcaps0 \fet0\sectd \psz9\linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\pntext\pard\plain\b\fs40\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s1\qc\sa360\keep\keepn\pagebb{\*\pn \pnlvl1\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 {\pntxta .}}\b\f4\fs40\lang2057 Monster Creation
\par \pard\plain \qj\keep\keepn\tx2835 \f4\fs26\lang2057 Document Name:\tab monsters.doc
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn\tx2835 Version:\tab 7.30
\par Author:\tab Michael Seifert (seifert@diku.dk)
\par Questions to:\tab seifert@diku.dk
\par Document intended for:\tab World Creators
\par 
\par Short Description:
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn This document describes how to create monsters, and explains in brief how the various weapon and armour values interact. Before reading this document you should read the {\i object.doc}
 document describing weapon and armour quality. Abilities and their meaning is described in the {\i ability.doc} document.
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
\par I\rquote ve attempted to remove all old references that are no longer valid (hand, toughness, etc).
\par \pard \qj\li720\keep\keepn\tx-1560 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\fs40\lang2057 2.\tab}\pard\plain \s1\qc\sa360\keep\keepn\pagebb{\*\pn \pnlvl1\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 {\pntxta .}}\b\f4\fs40\lang2057 Introduction
\par \pard\plain \qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 This document will step-by-step go through the most important attributes of a monster and explain their meaning.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs36\lang2057 2.1\tab}\pard\plain \s2\qj\sb360\sa120\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 }\f4\fs36\lang2057 Monster Level ({\i level})
\par \pard\plain \qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 When creating a monster it must be bet
ween level 0 and 199. The level of the monster decides how many skill points and ability points the monster has. Players start at third level and are expected to be between level [3..100]. The level of the monster is specified using the level field.

\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
\par \tab level 0\tab \tab /* Mosquito */
\par 
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn In general, an area should be designed around a 10 level span to be fairly consistent. For example a goblin camp for newbie players should be of level 0-10 (perhaps only 6). An orc area might be in the range 10-20th level.
\par The reason i
s, that monsters 10 levels below a player give 0 experience points while monsters 10 levels above a player are beginning to be a difficult kill. If you make an area too diverse players will give up since monsters either seem too easy (no experience) or to
o hard.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs36\lang2057 2.2\tab}\pard\plain \s2\qj\sb360\sa120\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 }\f4\fs36\lang2057 Natural armour & attack
\par \pard\plain \qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 The natural armour is specified using the NATURAL_DEF macro together with natural attack. For example:
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
\par NATURAL_DEF(WPN_CRUSH, ARM_PLATE)
\par 
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn You should know that the {\i weight }of the monster determines the maximum amount of damage it can give when using a natural attack. The weight is categorized as follows:
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clcfpat15\clcbpat15\clshdng7500 \cellx1164\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clcfpat15\clcbpat15\clshdng7500 \cellx2388 \pard \qc\keep\keepn\intbl {\b\cf8 Lbs\cell }\pard \qj\keep\keepn\intbl {
\b\cf8 Size\cell }\pard \intbl {\b\cf8 \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 \cellx1164\clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 \cellx2388 \pard \qc\keep\keepn\intbl 0..5\cell \pard \qj\keep\keepn\intbl Tiny\cell \pard \intbl \row 
\pard \qc\keep\keepn\intbl 6..40\cell \pard \qj\keep\keepn\intbl Small\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx1164\cellx2388 \pard \qc\keep\keepn\intbl 41..160\cell \pard \qj\keep\keepn\intbl Medium\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard 
\qc\keep\keepn\intbl 161..500\cell \pard \qj\keep\keepn\intbl Large\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf15 \clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 \cellx1164\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf15 
\clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 \cellx2388 \pard \qc\keep\keepn\intbl 501+\cell \pard \qj\keep\keepn\intbl Huge\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn By default monsters are medium.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs36\lang2057 2.3\tab}\pard\plain \s2\qj\sb360\sa120\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 }\f4\fs36\lang2057 Good, Evil and Neutral alignments ({\i alignment})
\par \pard\plain \qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 
Alignment is a value between -1000 and +1000, where -1000 is ultimate evil, 0 is neutral and +1000 is ultimate good. Good is per definition any value from +1000..+350, neutral is any value from +349..-349 and evil is any value from -350..-1000. Any value 
in between can also be used.
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn \tab alignment -750\tab /* Quite evil, maybe a Ghoul\tab */
\par \tab alignment -350\tab /* Barely evil.\tab \tab \tab */
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs36\lang2057 2.4\tab}\pard\plain \s2\qj\sb360\sa120\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 }\f4\fs36\lang2057 The Race ({\i race})
\par \pard\plain \qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 Each monster has a race as specified in {\i values.h}. In case you can\rquote t find a race which matches your monster, just use #define RACE_XXX in you own zonefile with a number that isn\rquote 
t already used. We will then later transfer it to values.h. Example:
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
\par \tab race RACE_DRAGON_SILVER
\par 
\par or if the race you need isn\rquote t defined, you could type:
\par 
\par \tab #define RACE_CRABMAN\tab 7681\tab /* This is a large red crab man */
\par \tab race RACE_CRABMAN
\par 
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn Later it will be inserted into values.h - and you should then remove your definition (you will get warnings at that time).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs36\lang2057 2.5\tab}\pard\plain \s2\qj\sb360\sa120\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 }\f4\fs36\lang2057 The gender ({\i sex})
\par \pard\plain \qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 Each monster has a gender: male, female or none, as specified in {\i values.h} SEX_XXX macros. Example:
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn \tab sex SEX_NEUTRAL
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs36\lang2057 2.6\tab}\pard\plain \s2\qj\sb360\sa120\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 }\f4\fs36\lang2057 Setting Abilities ({\i ability[]})
\par \pard\plain \qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 All abilities are in the range [1..200]. Players usually have a maximum of 150, modified by magic... 200 is considered divine.
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn When creating a monster you can not directly specify the size of the abilities, instead you specify a percentage distribution of points. The amount of points are then distributed by the computer according to {\i the specified level}
. The MSET_ABILITY macro is available for this purpose, and has the format:
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
\par \tab MSET_ABILITY(str,dex,con,hpp,bra,cha,mag,div)
\par 
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
The amount of points distributed depends directly upon the level of the monster and the percentage as the table below shows. If for example you create a monsters of level 30, then 20% will cause the monster to get a little above 30 points.
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn Note that the sum of the ability values must be 100%. This is thus an example of an ability distribution:
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
\par \tab MSET_ABILITY(25,15,10,15,10,5,10,0)  /* Sum is 100% */
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs30\lang2057 2.6.1\tab}\pard\plain \s3\sb240\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl3\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 {\pntxtb .}}\f4\fs30\lang2057 \page Hints
\par \pard\plain \qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 If you choose high percentages and high levels, you may \ldblquote waste\rdblquote 
 a ability points as it would pop above 200 (all excess points are simply removed). For example a level 199 monster with an ability percentage a bit above 20% will make an ability above the 200 points maximum.
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn Do not spend points on both MAG and DIV, {\i only the appropriate value of the two are used}. So magic users should have MAG (fireball, etc.) and clerics should have DIV (cure light wounds, etc.).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs36\lang2057 2.7\tab}\pard\plain \s2\qj\sb360\sa120\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 }\f4\fs36\lang2057 Setting Weapon and Spell skills ({\i spell[], weapon[]})
\par \pard\plain \qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 NPC's know about weapons and spells but not at the same detailed level as the player. For NPC\rquote s the spell and weapon group are used. Thus the \ldblquote axe hammer category\rdblquote 
 defines all defence and all attack for all kind of axes and hammers - whereas the player would have to train individually in each axe and hammer type. The same is true for spells. Th
us if a monster has 25 points in the weapon "sword category" it will fight (and defend) with all sword-like weapons at skill 25.
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn When you define weapon and spell skills (monsters have no skill skills) you also define these as percentages, and the program automatically distributes the points. Use the pre-defined macros:
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
\par \tab MSET_WEAPON(axe_ham, sword, club_mace, polearm, unarmed, special)
\par 
\par Where
\par \tab {\i axe_ham}\tab Is any hammer or axe weapon.
\par \tab {\i sword}\tab \tab Is any sword like weapon, including dagger and rapier, etc.
\par \tab {\i club_mace}\tab Is any club or mace like weapon, flails, morning star, etc.
\par \pard \qj\fi-2127\li2127\keep\keepn\tx709 {\i \tab polearm}\tab Is any flail or pole like weapon: spear, staff, halberd, trident, sickle, scythe.
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn \tab {\i unarmed}\tab Is any bite, claw, sting or other natural attack.
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn \tab {\i special}\tab Is any very peculiar weapon, currently only whip.
\par 
\par \tab MSET_SPELL(div, pro, det, sum, cre, min, hea, col, cel, int, ext)
\par 
\par Where
\par \tab {\i div}\tab Covers all divine sphere spell.
\par \tab {\i pro}\tab Covers all protection sphere spells.
\par \tab {\i det}\tab Covers all detection sphere spells.
\par \tab {\i sum}\tab Covers all summoning spells.
\par \tab {\i cre}\tab Covers all creation spells.
\par \tab {\i min}\tab Covers all mind spells.
\par \tab {\i hea}\tab Covers all heat spells (fireball, etc.)
\par \tab {\i col}\tab Covers all cold spells (frostball, etc.)
\par \tab {\i cel}\tab Covers all cell (electricity) spells (jolt, lightning bolt, etc.)
\par \tab {\i int}\tab Covers all internal (poison) spells (toxicate, etc.)
\par \tab {\i ext}\tab Covers all external (acid) spells (acid ball etc.)
\par See also {\i values.h} and {\i wmacros.h}.
\par The sum of all spell and weapon skills must be 100%. For example, the sum is 100%:
\par 
\par   \tab MSET_WEAPON(10,10,20,5,15,5)\tab /* 75% Total, Club/Mace is primary\tab */
\par \tab MSET_SPELL(8,0,0,3,0,3,2,3,3,3,3)\tab /* 25% Total, Fire is primary\tab \tab */
\par 
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
Remember that the groups define both attack and defence. Thus if you make an Orc which has 0% in the flail group it can only use its dexterity to defend itself. Likewise with spell groups. For this reason the groups are both "resistance" as well as attack
 groups.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs36\lang2057 2.8\tab}\pard\plain \s2\qj\sb360\sa120\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 }\f4\fs36\lang2057 Spell casting monsters
\par \pard\plain \qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 Some monsters are spell casting and spend a lot of points on either Magic or Divine power together with brain. To make a monster cast spells a number of various special routines are available, for example:

\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
\par \tab special SFUN_COMBAT_MAGIC \ldblquote cast acid ball\rdblquote 
\par \tab special SFUN_COMBAT_MAGIC_HEAL \ldblquote cast random teleport\rdblquote 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn This would make a monster use the \ldblquote acid ball\rdblquote  spell when engaged in combat. The monster would attempt to cast \ldblquote random teleport\rdblquote 
 when it gets low on hitpoints. The following table shows which spells a monster should use at a given level:
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clcfpat15\clcbpat15\clshdng7500 \cellx984\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clcfpat15\clcbpat15\clshdng7500 \cellx3072 \pard \qj\keep\keepn\intbl {\b\cf8 Level\cell }\pard \qj\keep\keepn\intbl {
\b\cf8 Circle\cell }\pard \intbl {\b\cf8 \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 \cellx984\clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 \cellx3072 \pard \qj\keep\keepn\intbl 0-14\cell \pard \qj\keep\keepn\intbl 1st magic circle\cell \pard 
\intbl \row \pard \qj\keep\keepn\intbl 15-34\cell \pard \qj\keep\keepn\intbl 2nd magic circle\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf15 \cellx984\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf15 \cellx3072 \pard 
\qj\keep\keepn\intbl 35-200\cell \pard \qj\keep\keepn\intbl 3rd magic circle\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn For example, a fireusing monster of
 level 20 would use the 2nd circle of magic (the fireball spell) whereas a level 5 monster would use the burn spell. There are also special routines for breathweapons for use with for example dragons. See monster definitions in {\i composed.h}.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs36\lang2057 2.9\tab}\pard\plain \s2\qj\sb360\sa120\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 }\f4\fs36\lang2057 More or less Experience ({\i exp})
\par \pard\plain \qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 By default a monster gives the amount of experience it is worth (which depends on the {\i level}
 of the monster). If you create a particular powerful monster or a very weak monster, you may wish to raise or lower the amount of experience given to the player. This can be done by specifying an experience percentage modification.
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
You may want to modify the standard amount (of 0%) when you create non-standard monsters. The default amount is not always the correct amount, for example an aggressive invisible 10th level dragon with breath weapon and spells, should give more exp than a
 blind, thieves-friendly dragon. The way I suggest you to calculate the monsters experience value should be adding the following amplifiers:
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn Note that if the monster is using wands, scrolls, staffs or magical items this should {\i not }increase the exp amount, since the item value should be more than enough reward for the players!
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn See example application later in this document.
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn \page Amplifiers :
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clcfpat15\clcbpat15\clshdng7500 \cellx2688\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clcfpat15\clcbpat15\clshdng7500 \cellx3840\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clcfpat15\clcbpat15\clshdng7500 \cellx9747 
\pard \qc\keep\keepn\intbl {\b\cf8 Ability / Skill\cell }\pard \qc\keep\keepn\intbl {\b\cf8 Bonus\cell }\pard \qc\keep\keepn\intbl {\b\cf8 Examples\cell }\pard \intbl {\b\cf8 \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 \cellx2688
\clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 \cellx3840\clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 \cellx9747 \pard \keep\keepn\intbl Breath weapon\cell \pard \qr\keep\keepn\intbl +50\cell \pard \keep\keepn\intbl Usually a Dragon or Gorgon\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard 
\keep\keepn\intbl Special fighting routine\cell \pard \qr\keep\keepn\intbl +20..50\cell \pard \keep\keepn\intbl 
Example : The Evil Iggy remembers who he is fighting with. When he gets below 50% hits he casts "random teleport". Later (when he has full hp) he summons the player he has been fighting
 with and THEN tries to kill the player. This routine is highly dangerous for groups.\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2688\cellx3840\cellx9747 \pard \keep\keepn\intbl Low level monster casts
\par \pard \keep\keepn\intbl high level spells\cell \pard \qr\keep\keepn\intbl +10..30\cell \pard \keep\keepn\intbl 
A low level NPC has a special routine SFUN_COMBAT_MAGIC or SFUN_COMBAT_MAGIC_HEAL where the spell is a high level spell. Ex. a 1. level wizard casts a "acid ball". This is up to the creator to decide how tough the monsters spell should be.\cell \pard 
\intbl \row \pard \keep\keepn\intbl Monster stings (poison)\cell \pard \qr\keep\keepn\intbl +20\cell \pard \keep\keepn\intbl Player can die even after a successful kill\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 
\cellx2688\clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 \cellx3840\clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 \cellx9747 \pard \keep\keepn\intbl Monster is invisible\cell \pard \qr\keep\keepn\intbl +15\cell \pard \keep\keepn\intbl Players can not attack, and player's
 group will not be able to help, unless they can see invisible\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keep\keepn\intbl Monster is hiding\cell \pard \qr\keep\keepn\intbl +10\cell \pard \keep\keepn\intbl A thief\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 
\cellx2688\cellx3840\cellx9747 \pard \keep\keepn\intbl Monster can see invisible\cell \pard \qr\keep\keepn\intbl +5\cell \pard \keep\keepn\intbl This is only dangerous if the monster is aggressive, and this amplifier should only be used in such a case.
\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keep\keepn\intbl Monster is team working\cell \pard \qr\keep\keepn\intbl +5..+50\cell \pard \keep\keepn\intbl The guards helps the Captain and each other.\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 
\clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 \cellx2688\clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 \cellx3840\clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 \cellx9747 \pard \keep\keepn\intbl Monster is being rescued\cell \pard \qr\keep\keepn\intbl +5..+30\cell \pard \keep\keepn\intbl 
The king is hard to kill, you have to kill his lifeguards first.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keep\keepn\intbl Monster is aggressive\cell \pard \qr\keep\keepn\intbl +5\cell \pard \keep\keepn\intbl Monster will hit first and increase chance of a kill
\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx2688\cellx3840\cellx9747 \pard \keep\keepn\intbl Monster is ambushing\cell \pard \qr\keep\keepn\intbl +10\cell \pard \keep\keepn\intbl The monster is using the special function SFUN_RAN_ATTACK
\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keep\keepn\intbl Monster have to rescue\cell \pard \qr\keep\keepn\intbl -5\cell \pard \keep\keepn\intbl The monster will always get into a fight, and the chance of being killed is higher than the NPC it'll have to rescue.
\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 \cellx2688\clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 \cellx3840\clcfpat16\clcbpat8\clshdng2000 \cellx9747 \pard \keep\keepn\intbl Monster is friendly to thieves\cell \pard 
\qr\keep\keepn\intbl -5\cell \pard \keep\keepn\intbl A usually stupid cleric etc.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \keep\keepn\intbl Blind\cell \pard \qr\keep\keepn\intbl -15\cell \pard \keep\keepn\intbl A mole in daylight.\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf15 \cellx2688\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf15 \cellx3840\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf15 \cellx9747 \pard \keep\keepn\intbl If weapon category isn't
\par \pard \keep\keepn\intbl like wielded weapon\cell \pard \qr\keep\keepn\intbl -50\cell \pard \keep\keepn\intbl If a NPC is equipped with a weapon which isn't in a category he has practised.\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs36\lang2057 2.10\tab}\pard\plain \s2\qj\sb360\sa120\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 }\f4\fs36\lang2057 \page Standard monsters in {\i composed.h}
\par \pard\plain \qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 The file {\i composed.h} contains many standard monst
ers. It is a good idea to study these definitions, as they form the basis of many different monsters. Note that the definitions by no means are perfect, but we are hoping to make a more or less \ldblquote complete\rdblquote 
 monster compendium. If you create certain (general) monsters, please design it as a macro so that it can be incorporated in the file. The more monsters created by using these macros the better a place the game will be for the players.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs36\lang2057 2.11\tab}\pard\plain \s2\qj\sb360\sa120\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 }\f4\fs36\lang2057 Examples
\par \pard\plain \qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 The following is an example of creating different types of monsters.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs30\lang2057 2.11.1\tab}\pard\plain \s3\sb240\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl3\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 {\pntxtb .}}\f4\fs30\lang2057 A Black Dragon
\par \pard\plain \qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 In this example a black dragon is created. You should notice that the number \ldblquote 121\rdblquote  is the value of the SPL_ACIDBALL_3 definition since I can\rquote 
t currently get it translated inside quotes. The following should at least be specified in your zone file.
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
\par \tab race RACE_DRAGON_BLACK
\par \tab sex SEX_FEMALE
\par \tab level 15
\par \tab height 625\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab /* In centimetres. 1 inch == 2.54cm\tab */
\par \tab weight\tab  1250\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab /* In pounds, 1 pound = 0.45359kg\tab */
\par \tab NATURAL_DEF(WPN_CLAW, ARM_PLATE)
\par \tab exp 50\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab /* Bonus for breath weapon\tab \tab */
\par \tab alignment -900\tab \tab \tab \tab /* Evil.\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab */
\par \tab MSET_ABILITY(20,12,12,12,12,12,20,0)\tab /* Most STR and MAG\tab \tab */
\par \tab MSET_WEAPON(10,10,10,5,30,5)\tab \tab /* Natural is above average\tab \tab */
\par \tab MSET_SPELL(0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,30)\tab \tab /* Acid sphere (external)\tab \tab */
\par \tab special SFUN_BREATH_WEAPON \ldblquote \rdblquote +SPL_ACIDBALL_3
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn {\b 
\par }\pard \qj\keep\keepn Calculation of experience:
\par \tab Breath weapon\tab \tab =   50%
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ----------
\par \tab SUM\tab \tab \tab \tab =   50%
\par 
\par The same dragon could have been created by using the macro from the file {\i composed.h:}
\par 
\par \tab M_DRAGON_BLACK(15, SEX_FEMALE)
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs30\lang2057 2.11.2\tab}\pard\plain \s3\sb240\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl3\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnsp144 {\pntxtb .}}\f4\fs30\lang2057 \page A strong warrior
\par \pard\plain \qj\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 See the composed.h macros - they contain definitions for a great variety of humans!
\par \pard \qj\keep\keepn 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs26\lang2057 1.\tab}\pard \sb240\keep\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}In general when creating a warrior monster, {\i Strength} determines amount of damage, {\i Dexterity }
determines chance to defend. Armour the amount of damage received. {\i Constitution} determines hitpoint gain rate. {\i Weapon} skills ought to be high, {\i spell} skills few, and only as 'resistance' against magic.
\par }