{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\qc\sa360\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn\pagebb \b\f4\fs40\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\qj\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn 
\f4\fs36\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb240\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs30\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext15 heading 3;}{\s4\sb290\sa192\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \i\f4\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}{\*\cs10 \additive 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\qj\li720\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext15 Normal Indent;}{\s16\qj\li1418\ri850\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn\tldot\tx8646\tqr\tx9072 \f4\fs26\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 toc 3;}{
\s17\qj\li709\ri850\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn\tldot\tx8646\tqr\tx9072 \f4\fs26\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 toc 2;}{\s18\qj\ri850\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn\tldot\tx8504\tqr\tx8640 \f4\fs26\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 toc 1;}{
\s19\qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn\tqc\tx4819\tqr\tx9071 \f4\fs26\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext19 footer;}{\s20\qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn\tqc\tx4819\tqr\tx9071 \f4\fs26\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext20 header;}{\*\cs21 \additive\fs16\up6 \sbasedon10 
footnote reference;}{\s22\qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext22 footnote text;}{\s23\fi-284\li426\sa164\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext23 liste;}{
\s24\fi-284\li426\sb192\sa164\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon23\snext23 listestart;}{\s25 \f3\fs20 \snext25 Programtekst;}{\s26\qc\sb68 \f3\fs20 \sbasedon25\snext26 TableText;}{\s27\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \b\f4\fs22\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext27 Statement;}{\s28\qj\sl240\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs22\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext28 Figur tekst;}{\s29\qj\sb120\keep\keepn \f4\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext29 caption;}}{\info{\title Room Creation}{\author Michael Seifert}
{\operator Michael Seifert}{\creatim\yr1995\mo1\dy1\hr15\min28}{\revtim\yr1995\mo1\dy1\hr15\min28}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages46}{\nofwords8573}{\nofchars75666}{\vern49203}}\paperw11907\paperh16840\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noextrasprl\prcolbl\cvmme\sprsspbf\brkfrm\swpbdr\hyphcaps0 \fet0\sectd \psz9\linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\qc\sa360\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn\pagebb \b\f4\fs40\lang2057 Room Creation
\par \pard\plain \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn\tx2835 \f4\fs26\lang2057 Document Name:\tab room.doc
\par \pard \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn\tx2835 Version:\tab 1.10
\par Author:\tab Michael Seifert (seifert@diku.dk)
\par Questions to:\tab seifert@diku.dk
\par Document intended for:\tab World Creators
\par 
\par Short Description:
\par \pard \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn This document describes special interesting tricks and macros for use with rooms.
\par \pard \qj\li720\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn\tx-1560 
\par \pard\plain \s2\qj\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs36\lang2057 \page 1. Secret Doors
\par \pard\plain \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 To make a secret door, you must set the EX_HIDDEN flag on the exits open flags, for example:
\par \pard \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn 
\par \pard \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn east to treasure_room keywords \{\ldblquote secret door\rdblquote , \ldblquote door\rdblquote , \ldblquote wall\rdblquote , \ldblquote crack\rdblquote \} open \{EX_OPEN_CLOSE, EX_HIDDEN\} descr \ldblquote 
You notice a small crack in the wall!\rdblquote 
\par \pard \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn 
\par \pard \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn Notice that it is important to specify the possible \ldblquote search keywords\rdblquote  as well as the \ldblquote door keywords\rdblquote . If you for example omit \ldblquote wall\rdblquote  or \ldblquote crack
\rdblquote  then a command of \ldblquote search wall\rdblquote  will always fail!
\par \pard \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn You must specify how difficult it is to find th
e door with the search skill. The difficulty is specified in % and when it equals the players skill level, he has a 50% chance of spotting the door. Roughly the difficulty percentage should equal the intended player level.  Combined with the above example
, lets say you intend a level 35 to be the average searcher, you would type:
\par \pard \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn 
\par SECRET_DOOR_DIFFICULTY(EAST, 35)
\par 
\par \pard \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn I can recommend that you make room descriptions hinting to the presence of the door since it will otherwise be near impossible to find it. And as
 above it is a good idea to make direction descriptions and also apply extra descriptions for keywords like \ldblquote wall\rdblquote , \ldblquote crack\rdblquote , etc.
\par \pard\plain \s2\qj\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs36\lang2057 2. Rooms in rooms
\par \pard\plain \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 A room can be placed inside another room with the \lquote in\rquote  keyword (see dmc.asc document).
\par \pard\plain \s2\qj\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs36\lang2057 3. Force move
\par \pard\plain \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 
The special function SFUN_FORCE_MOVE can be used to make persons automatically move to another room at specified time intervals. It is perfect for situations like a teleporting closet (a room in a room with a force move), a river that makes you drift alon
g with the stream (and perhaps down a waterfall), etc.
\par \pard\plain \s2\qj\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs36\lang2057 \page 4. Death rooms
\par \pard\plain \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 
We do discourage the use of rooms with certain-death. There may however be situations in which it is reasonable to give an amount of damage to characters. For this purpose we have made the SFUN_DEATH_ROOM [\ldblquote <damage number>\rdblquote 
] function. The function will damage players at every specified interval with the damage amount specified, for example:
\par \pard \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn 
\par \tab special SFUN_DEATH_ROOM \ldblquote 100\rdblquote  time PULSE_SEC*10
\par 
\par \pard \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn will give 10.0 damage points to players inside the room
. If the character has no means of escaping he is almost certainly doomed (unless he posesses means of teleporting). Make damage rooms reasonable, escapable and avoidable. Nothing discourages exploration of a zone more than a certain death damage room.

\par \pard\plain \s2\qj\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs36\lang2057 5. Sacred rooms
\par \pard\plain \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 Remember that it can often be a good idea to insert a sacred room in your zone, especially in beginner areas. A sacred room is specified by the:
\par \pard \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn 
\par flags \{UNIT_FL_SACRED\}
\par \pard\plain \s2\qj\sb360\sa120\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs36\lang2057 6. \ldblquote Buffer rooms\rdblquote 
\par \pard\plain \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn \f4\fs26\lang2057 In the case that you have two dangerous monsters in two 
adjacent rooms, it is often a good idea to insert a buffer room to avoid players fleeing from one monster into the certain death of the other monster. This of course depends completely on the situation.
\par \pard \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn A good example of such a design is the tiamat zone where when players fight one dragon the have 50% risk of fleeing into the arms of another dragon.
\par \pard \qj\sl360\slmult0\keep\keepn 
\par }